Awesome dev - Release of lesson version 1.0 (#1)
carpentries-incubator/scientific-metadata: episodes/data-metadata.Rmd

18. (<i>allow some time for questions</i>)

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

**Handwritten (lab) notes** Handwritten (lab) notes are still a common
practice in many scientific disciplines. These notes are easy to take
during data generation. The greatest disadvantage, however, is the
physical separation from the data itself and the difficulty to find,
store and share this information. Often, handwritten lab notes do not
follow a predictable structure and, hence, are hard to interpret and
sometimes even hard to read.

**Readme style text documents** Recording your metadata (additionally)
in a digital `README`-style text document comes with one great advantage:
the metadata can be associated and stored directly with the experimental
data. `README`-style metadata best practices include:[^5]

[^5]: Chadwick, I. (2016). "Research Data Management: guide to
    writing"readme" type metadata." The Open University.
    <https://www.open.ac.uk/library-research-support/sites/www.open.ac.uk.library-research-support/files/files/RDM-Guidelines-for-creating-readme-style-metadata.pdf>

<ul>

> <li>creating one readme file for each data file, whenever possible.</li>

Author: ```suggestion
<li>creating one `README` file for each data file, whenever possible.</li>
```

The learners apply their acquired knowledge about metadata identification and types in the context of a familiar work situation.

**Implementation:** <br>
<ul>
  <li>select a scientific journal publication of your liking (could be related to the research field of the learners, if the group is homogeneous in this regard.)</li>
  <li>share the journal on your screen</li>
  <li>with the whole group of learners, find the "hidden" metadata in the publication and sort the findings into the metadata types (descriptive, administrative, structural)</li>
</ul>

**Creator's recommendation**: <br>
Use a whiteboard application to display the journal publication. This allows for simultaneous highlighting / annotation of the findings and thus gives a visual response and documentation of the discussion. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::: instructor
## :coffee: Break :coffee:

We recommend a **15 min break** at this point.
:::

::: keypoints
-   **Data** is potential information.
-   Borders between **data** and **metadata** are fluid and depend on
    the context.
-   **Scientific meta information** is often recorded in handwritten

>     (lab) notes. A better - though still limited - solution, is the documentation of scientific metadata in accompanying README-files

Author: ```suggestion
    (lab) notes. A better - though still limited - solution, is the documentation of scientific metadata in accompanying `README` files
```

---

> title: 'Data & Metadata'

Reviewer: * Consider renaming to `Data and Metadata`, might solve https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/scientific-metadata/issues/3#issuecomment-1458005306
* Still, the problem probably should be reported (looks like a bug in the pipeline)

Author: ```suggestion
title: 'Data and Metadata'
```

teaching: 50
exercises: 15
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

![Pomerantz, J. (2015). Metadata. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.](fig/jeffreyPomerantzQuote.png){alt="Quote by Monya Baker saying 'Data is stuff. It is raw, unprocessed, possibly even untouched by human hands, unviewed by human eyes,, un-thought-about by human minds.'"}
<br>

::: questions
-   What is data and what is metadata?
-   How is metadata classified?

> -   Where can I find (meta)data in every day examples?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Where can I find (meta)data in everyday examples?
```

everyday = ordinary, every day == literally that (i.e. each day-night cycle)

-   What are worst and good enough practices of metadata handling in the

>     scientific context?

Reviewer 2: I don't really understand this point, is it about examples of good and bad practices in metadata handling?

Reviewer: I think its fine... it does say exactly that "good-enough practices" and "worst practices" ... "of metadata handling in the scientific context"

Reviewer 2: Is "worst practices" a commonly used expression? (I genuinely don't know, I don't think I have every heard it)

:::

::: objectives
-   Recognize and describe examples of (meta)data

> -   Name best and worst practice situations in research (meta)data

Reviewer: Is is about "naming" them? I don't think so.

What is the **actual** objective? "see some first examples of..."? or "get an impression ..."?

    handling

> -   Getting familiar with the example dataset

Reviewer: Inconsistent tense... "recognize" vs "getting familiar"

Should be consistent.

Author: ```suggestion
-   Recognize and describe examples of (meta)data
-   Name best and worst practice situations in research (meta)data
    handling
-   Familiarize with the example dataset
```

4. just a concatenation of signs...
5. we call these **glyphs**. To a human being, this sequence of glyphs is not understandable and it needs some processing by a machine to make it interpretable for humans. And this is data...
6. a **potentially informative object**. 
7. If the data is now processed by the receiving machine, it will be converted in this picture. (<i>The satellite image shows the city center of Cologne, Germany. Feel free to substitute it with a place your learners are familiar with and activate them by asking "Does anyone know, what is depicted?"</i>) In this processed form, the data becomes human-readable. In information science, this is what we call information.
8. Knowledge is intrinsified information. For example, knowing where on the image the cathedral is located.
9. The highest level of information content is wisdom, which means putting the acquired knowledge into context, the bigger picture. You might use the satellite image to navigate between to locations, for example. Naturally, as researchers, we strive to reach wisdom with our work.
10. We have seen, that the information content increases by adding context, meaning, and insight to data.

> 11. The take-away message is: Data is **potential information** and needs to be processed and contextualized** to make it accessible for the human audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. The take-away message is: Data is **potential information** and needs to be processed and **contextualized** to make it accessible for the human audience.
```

Accordingly, **INFORMATION** is processed, human-consumable data. If
this information is internalized by a human being, it is called
**KNOWLEDGE**. This knowledge can be applied in a broader context by the
human being. Applied knowledge is called **WISDOM**. The key to reaching
wisdom from data is processing and contextualizing data to extract
information. To achieve this goal we often need to add a description to
the data: **metadata**.

::: callout
## Information pyramid

<img src="../docs/fig/informationPyramid.png" name="informationPyramid" alt="Information pyramid from glyphs to wisdom highlighting the data fracture. Text reads: Data is potential information and needs to be processed and contextualized to make it accessible for the human audience."/>

:::

## Metadata

::: callout
Metadata is **a statement** about a potentially informative object.
:::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: instructor
## Lecture: What is metadata?

**Slide set**: <a href="../files/slideSet/WhatIsMetadata_CarpentriesIncubator_ScientificMetadata.pdf" target="_blank" download>WhatIsMetadata.pdf</a>

**Time estimate**:

> 1. What is metadata? (<i>Direct this questions to the learners and wait for them to reply. They might come up with the generic "Data about data".</i>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. What is metadata? (<i>Direct this question to the learners and wait for them to reply. They might come up with the generic "Data about data".</i>)
```

2. Often metadata is described as "data about data", or - as Merriam Webster puts it - "metadata is data that provides information about other data". But this is extremely unspecific.
3. If you look a bit further, you can find more detailed description of the term "metadata". Admittedly, these text are seldomly...
4. fun to read.
5. Let's start - again - with an example. Let's say, you are looking for an informative book about the topic of metadata and decide to look for recommendations online...

> 6. your search will result in about 1,5 million results. But you remember a colleague, that has recently talked about a very good book on metadata...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. your search will result in about 1,5 million results. But you remember a colleague, who has recently mentioned a very good book on metadata...
```

Author: ```suggestion
6. your search will result in about 1.5 million results. But you remember a colleague, that has recently mentioned a very good book on metadata...
```

> 7. you ask him about it and he gives you a well-meaning description of said book. "It is black and the title is 'metadata'. It was written by Jeff... Jeff... Something."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. you ask him about it, and he gives you a well-meaning description of said book - "It is black, and the title is 'metadata'. It was written by Jeff... Jeff... Something."
```

> 8. Okay, this is not really precise but you take these information to your favourite search engine and you will most likely come up with this ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Okay, this is not really precise, but you take this information to your favourite search engine, and it will most likely come back with this ...
```

> 9. book. Metadata by Jeffrey Pomerantz published in the MIT Press Essential Knowledge series. So far, you have absolutely no idea about the content of the book - the actually data that is hold by it. However, with just a few clues on the title, author, and design, you can identify the ressource. You did this by using "metadata". Let's stay with this example for a bit and take a look inside... 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. book: "Metadata" by Jeffrey Pomerantz, published in the MIT Press Essential Knowledge series. So far, you have absolutely no idea about the content of the book - the actually data it contains. However, with just a few clues on the title, author, and design, you can identify the resource. You did this by using "metadata". Let's stay with this example for a bit and take a look inside... 
```

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: instructor
## Lecture: Descriptive, administrative, structural metadata

**Slide set**: <a href="../files/slideSet/DescriptiveAdministrativeStructuralMetadata_CarpentriesIncubator_ScientificMetadata.pdf" target="_blank" download>DescriptiveAdministrativeStructuralMetadata.pdf</a>

**Time estimate**:

> 1. On one of first pages, you will find a lot of information about the book...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On one of the first pages, you will find a lot of information about the book...
```

> 2. You will get information on author, publisher, keywords and so on, that are descriptive in nature and can help you - or librarians - to successfully identify this specific book. Among these is a very important descriptor...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You will get information about the author, publisher, relevant keywords and so on, that are descriptive in nature and can help you - or librarians - to successfully identify this specific book. Among these there is a very important descriptor...
```

3. The persistent identifier. In the example of a book, this is the ISBN number. Whenever you look up this number, the result will unambiguously point to this specific title.
4. Furthermore, you will get information about how the book is administered: How it is distributed, who is responsible for its distribution and which conditions need to apply.
5. You can also find information on legal conditions that apply to this resource, such as copyright issues and the terms of distribution. Legal information can be considered as a subset of administrative information.
6. And - really important - you will get a precise idea about the book's structure and how you can navigate it: the chapters, its general content and how it is distributed over the pages. But still: we have not yet read a single word, that actually delivers the content of the book - its data.
7. So, metadata - or metainformation - is more or less structured data, that contains information about characteristics of other data (objects).
8. Let's briefly reflect on the types of metadata, that we came across so far, before we apply these concepts in the first challenge for today: 

>   - descriptive metadata holds information about the intellectual content, such as title, author, abstract...

Reviewer: What is meant my "intellectual content"? Does this only apply to high-brow works by obscure long-dead philosophers? ;)

>   - descriptive metadata holds information about the intellectual content, such as title, author, abstract...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - *descriptive metadata* holds information about the intellectual content, such as title, author, abstract...
```

>   - administrative metadata specifies how a resource is managed. This can be terms of distribution and copyright information. Regarding published data, this also applies to technical information on the files included in a dataset or versioning...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - *administrative metadata* specifies how a resource is managed. This includes things such as the terms of (re-)distribution and copyright information. This also includes technical information about the data (such as files included in a dataset) or versioning information...
```

"this also applies" is super confusing, I guess you try to say that this is also administrative metadata? Hope the suggestion is roughly what you mean.

>   - structural metadata describe, for example chapters in a book, file in a dataset, or software components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - *structural metadata* describe, for example chapters in a book, file in a dataset, or software components.
```

9. (<i>allow some time for questions</i>)

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Metadata is **(semi-)structured data** that provides information about
characteristics of other (more complex) data objects (e.g. files or
documents). Regarding research data, metadata gives the observer the
necessary context to interpret the data and derive information from it.

> Although metadata is data itself, it can only exist in connection with a

Reviewer: Just had the image on the "mutual dependency" -

metadata gives data context, and thus meaning

but this goes into the other direction as well -

data gives metadata meaning, too!

Otherwise it would be about nothing, thus not information, but noise. 

But maybe that is too philosophical and abstract :D

data object that is described by the metadata record (e.g. the

> meta-information in a book about said book). Metadata can be found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although metadata is data itself, it only is meaningful in connection with a
data object that is described by the metadata record (e.g. the
meta-information in a book about said book). Metadata can be found
```

inside of a data object (e.g. in a book, in a data record) or as a
separate object (e.g. library catalogue, separate file).

<a href="https://groups.niso.org/higherlogic/ws/public/download/17446/Understanding%20Metadata.pdf" target="_blank">National Information Standards
Organization</a>
(NISO, 2004, from "Big Data, Little Data, No Data", Christine L.
Borgman, 2015): "*Metadata is structured information that describes,
explains, locates, or otherwise makes it easier to retrieve, use or
manage an information resource*".

> ## Types of metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Types of Metadata
```

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: instructor
## Challenge 1: Real world metadata

**Slide set**: <a href="../files/slideSet/Challenge1RealWorldMetadata_CarpentriesIncubator_ScientificMetadata.pdf" target="_blank" download>Challenge1RealWorldMetadata.pdf</a>

**Time:** 15 min 

**Challenge type:** guided confrontation, individual investigation, discussion

**Objective:** <br>
The learners experience a real world example of functional metadata applications and practice their acquired knowledge on metadata types.

**Implementation:** <br>
We recommend using a pre-structured, collaborative document 
(whiteboard or notepad) to collect the participants' results.
Allow for some time for the learners to navigate the websites and explore the metadata in the source code individually (ca. 8 min). Open the source code of one website in the browser and share the screen. Talking points for the guided confrontation can be: 
<ul>
  <li>different types of targets (e.g. `twitter:`, `robots:`)</li>
  <li>different contexts (e.g. `dc:`, `og:`); don't go to deep in this topic and just teaser the existence of metadata standards and references</li>

>   <li>**Fun fact:** *The Guardian* regularly uses a comment in the `head` of their html documents to advertise IT jobs :grin: </li>

Reviewer: That indeed is a fun fact I did not know!

</ul>

> **White board:** <a href="../files/exampleChallenge1Whiteboard.pdf" target="_blank" download>example set-up</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Whiteboard:** <a href="../files/exampleChallenge1Whiteboard.pdf" target="_blank" download>example setup</a>
```

| Safari            | Option + Command + u    |
| Opera             | Ctrl + u                |
| Edge              | Ctrl + u                |
| Internet Explorer | Ctrl + u                |

4.  Look for <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_meta.asp" target="_blank">**meta tags**</a> in the HTML
    source code **`<head>`** element.
5.  Assign some **`<meta>`** tags to one of the categories
    **descriptive**, **administrative**, **structural**
:::

## Metadata records

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: instructor
## Lecture: Metadata in the scientific context

**Slide set**: <a href="../files/slideSet/MetadataInScience_CarpentriesIncubator_ScientificMetadata.pdf" target="_blank" download>MetadataInScience.pdf</a>

**Time estimate**: 10 min

1. Now let's shift our focus on metadata annotation in the scientific context.
2. I'm sure many of us have been in a similar situation. You start a new project that is based on the work of your predecessor or collaborators and you are supposed to start with reproducing the published results...
3. You take a look at the accompnying publication and the data looks neat...

> 4. But as soon as you open the underlying datasets, understanding the process on how this data was acquired is not so straight forward anymore. The variables might be hard to understand, there might be missing values, and the data cleaning is not necessarily apparent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. But as soon as you open the underlying datasets, understanding the process on how this data was acquired is not so straight-forward anymore. The variables might be hard to understand, there might be missing values, and the performed data cleaning is not necessarily apparent.
```

5. So you take a look at the experiment's documentation...

> 6. A study by Monya Baker, that was published in Nature in 2016 was able to show, that more than 70% of researchers have tried and failed to reproduce another scientis's experiments. And more than half have even failed to reproduce their own experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. A study by Monya Baker, that was published in Nature in 2016 was able to show, that more than 70% of researchers have tried and failed to reproduce another scientist's experiments. And more than half have even failed to reproduce their *own* experiments.
```

> 7. The worst practice that you can encounter in your scientific life is surely data, saved under an inexplicit file name with no documentation whatsoever.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The worst practice that you can encounter in your scientific life is surely data, saved under an uninformative file name, with no documentation whatsoever.
```

8. Slightly better practice are lab notes, which are still widely used as the go-to documentation method in experimental scientific areas. Using lab notes as documentation method, you can facilitate the findability... 
9. by assigning meaningful file names to your data. However...
10. lab notes come with various disadvantages. Lab notes are usually taken continuously and over the course of a 3-year contract, several hundred pages of lab notes can accumulate.

> 11. so even though lab notes allow for some kind of documentation, they are largely unstructured and subjective, rarely following templates or guidelines. The continous note taking makes the documentation hard to retrieve. They are physically seperated from the data they describe and remain in the hand of the experimentator or institution hosting the experiments, which makes them hard to share. And let's admit it, handwriting can be a pain to read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. so even though lab notes allow for some kind of documentation, they are largely unstructured and subjective, rarely following templates or guidelines. The continuous note-taking makes the documentation hard to retrieve. They are physically seperated from the data they describe and remain in the hand of the experimentor or institution hosting the experiments, which makes them hard to share. And let's admit it - handwriting can be a *pain* to read.
```

12. One way to store your documentation with your data, is README-style metadata... 

> 13. Just like taking lab notes, Readme-style files can be subjectively written natural text documents. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
13. Just like taking lab notes, `README`-style files can be simple, subjectively written natural text documents. 
```

> 14. You can also find templates for Readme-style metadata records. Sticking to these templates will allow for increased structure in your documentation records. Now that we document our data digitally, we have increased options to link the metadata record to the described dataset, for example by naming them accordingly...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
14. You can also find templates for `README`-style metadata records. Sticking to these templates will allow for increased structure in your documentation records. Now that we document our data digitally, we have increased options to link the metadata to the described dataset, for example by naming them accordingly...
```
metadata *record* sounds like something specific, here I guess it just means "better way to interlink data and metadata", right?

> 15. if you now want to find the results of a specific experiment on your computer, a local keyword search can help you to identify the dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. If you now want to find the results of a specific experiment on your computer, a local keyword search can help you to identify the dataset.
```

> 16. To sum up, digital documentation of your metadata in form of Readme-style metadata records, facilitates the linkage of data and metadata, allows for local searchability and increased readability, and the digital nature of the Readme file simplifies targeted sharing of the documentation. However, these records are still rather unstructured and subjective, and only allow for keyword searches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. To sum up, digital documentation of your metadata in form of `README`-style metadata records, facilitates the linkage of data and metadata, allows for local searchability and increased readability, and the digital nature of the `README` file simplifies targeted sharing of the documentation. However, these records are still rather unstructured and subjective, and only allow for keyword searches.
```

> 17. If you want to have a look on a well-designed template for Readme-style metadata records, a recommended link is provided in the Episode description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
17. If you want to have a look on a well-designed template for `README`-style metadata records, a recommended link is provided in the episode description.
```

18. (<i>allow some time for questions</i>)

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

**Handwritten (lab) notes** Handwritten (lab) notes are still a common
practice in many scientific disciplines. These notes are easy to take
during data generation. The greatest disadvantage, however, is the
physical separation from the data itself and the difficulty to find,

> store and share these information. Often, handwritten lab notes do not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
store and share this information. Often, handwritten lab notes do not
```

follow a predictable structure and, hence, are hard to interpret and
sometimes even hard to read.

**Readme style text documents** Recording your metadata (additionally)

> in a digital readme style text document comes with one great advantage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a digital `README`-style text document comes with one great advantage:
```

the metadata can be associated and stored directly with the experimental

> data. Readme style metadata best practices include:[^5]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data. `README`-style metadata best practices include:[^5]
```

[^5]: Chadwick, I. (2016). "Research Data Management: guide to
    writing"readme" type metadata." The Open University.
    <https://www.open.ac.uk/library-research-support/sites/www.open.ac.uk.library-research-support/files/files/RDM-Guidelines-for-creating-readme-style-metadata.pdf>

<ul>

> <li>creating one readme file for each data file, whenever possible.</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<li>creating one `README` file for each data file, whenever possible.</li>
```

It this reasonable advice? I'd rather say "for each distinct dataset" or "for each topical subdirectory". Sounds like one could misunderstand what the intention is

Reviewer 2: I imagine that it's hard to give general advice which makes sense for all use cases because of how diverse they are, though I like your suggestion of using "data set" instead of "data file".

<li>naming the readme in a way that it is easily associated with the
data file(s) it describes.</li>

<li>writing the readme document as a plain text file for
interoperability.</li>

> <li>formatting multiple readme files identically.</li>

Reviewer: In general, readme is in the course written in all kinds of ways: README, readme, Readme

Probably this needs some "search and replace"-pass

Author: ```suggestion
<li>naming the `README` in a way that it is easily associated with the
data file(s) it describes.</li>

<li>writing the `README` document as a plain text file for
interoperability.</li>

<li>formatting multiple `README` files identically.</li>
```

<li>where possible follow established conventions for scientific
vocabulary (i.e. from glossaries or resources such as the <a href="https://goldbook.iupac.org/" target="_blank">IUPAC Gold
book</a>)</li>

</ul>

We strongly recommend to use <a href="https://cornell.app.box.com/v/ReadmeTemplate" target="_blank">**this template**</a> for readme style metadata documents.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: instructor
# Guided confrontation: Metadata in scientific publications

**Slide set:** -

**Time:** 10 min

**Type:** guided confrontation, collaboration

**Objective:** <br>

> The learners apply their acquired knowledge about metadata identification and types on a familiar work situation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The learners apply their acquired knowledge about metadata identification and types in the context of a familiar work situation.
```

**Implementation:** <br>
<ul>
  <li>select a scientific journal publication of your liking (could be related to the research field of the learners, if the group is homogeneous in this regard.)</li>
  <li>share the journal on your screen</li>
  <li>with the whole group of learners, find the "hidden" metadata in the publication and sort the findings into the metadata types (descriptive, administrative, structural)</li>
</ul>

**Creator's recommendation**: <br>

> Use a white board application to display the journal publication. This allows for simultaneous highlighting / annotation of the findings and thus gives a visual response and documentation of the discussion. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a whiteboard application to display the journal publication. This allows for simultaneous highlighting / annotation of the findings and thus gives a visual response and documentation of the discussion. 
```

Reviewer: white/black board != whiteboard / blackboard

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::: instructor
## :coffee: Break :coffee:

We recommend a **15 min break** at this point.
:::

::: keypoints
-   **Data** is potential information.
-   Borders between **data** and **metadata** are fluid and depend on
    the context.
-   **Scientific meta information** is often recorded in handwritten
    (lab) notes, README style records, or the like, limiting its

>     accessibility to humans and computers.

Reviewer 2: I think this point may be confusing in to the learners. The previous paragraph was about how to write good readme files, but one of the keypoints is that readme files limit the accessibility  to humans and computers.

The idea is clearer on the instructor notes:

> ...digital documentation of your metadata in form of Readme-style metadata records, facilitates the linkage of data and metadata, allows for local searchability and increased readability, and the digital nature of the Readme file simplifies targeted sharing of the documentation. However, these records are still rather unstructured and subjective, and only allow for keyword searches.

Maybe try to make it clear on the keypoints that, even though they are a limited solution, readme files are a better way of documenting metadata than handwritten notes.

Reviewer: Yes I agree... should be clearer that lab notes < readme ( < structured formats)... i.e. that readme is better than non-digital, but still.. quite bad (if its the only place to get the info)

Author: ```suggestion
-   **Scientific meta information** is often recorded in handwritten
    (lab) notes. A better - though still limited - solution, is the documentation of scientific metadata in accompanying README-files
```
